So were are you successful?
Let's start with Exercise one,
creating this sign up form.
Now we're in a form element here already with some bootstrap columns,
so what I'll do here is I'll create a div with a class, form group to give it some nice bootstrap
styling
and in there, I want to have a label where I say first name and then I have my input which
is of type text of course which shall hold my first name,
I will give it a class, form control to improve the styling of it
and then I'm going to copy that
to also get another form group for the last name and you could style this differently to have them
sit next to each other or something like that,
I'll keep that really simple.
Thereafter we want to fetch the e-mail address so that shall be the e-mail address here and then
let's see,
we shall fetch the password next,
now here of course we shall change the type to password,
I think that makes sense, to hide it
and lastly, I want to create these radio buttons.
Now radio buttons with the bootstrap framework are created like this,
we still have our form group here
but then inside this form group, we want to have a label and in this label, we have our radio button then,
so the type is therefore radio and we set a value which is assigned to this radio button
and here, this is yes
and of course we display yes here,
so the value in the html element is what will be stored thereafter and yes, thereafter is basically just
the text we can see in our template.
Now the other radio button belongs to the same form group, so I'll add it like this
and here I want to have no as the value and also as what I see here.
So let's see this in the running application,
I'm quickly going to speed up my server here again
and this is what I end up with,
looks good.
Now with that form created in html, the next step is to hook it up to,
well our properties and create these properties in the first place.
So let me create these properties quickly,
I got an empty object down there so I'm changing this by using my data here or by setting up my data
and here I want to have first name which is empty by default,
thereafter I want to have a last name which is empty by default,
then an email,
empty by default and a password,
you guessed it empty by default
and then also my store data field which I'll set to true initially.
Now I can hook them up,
so here I want to assign v-model first name to this form group here, so for form control I should say
then for the next, it's the last name and then for this one here, it's the email, for the password
it's obviously the password property I'm assigning and then here, for this radio button,
well to each of the two radio buttons, I assigned the store data v-model because keep in mind, we have to
assign the same model here to make them alternate, to let vuejs know that these two radio buttons are
alternatives and should be bound to the same property.
Now with that, I can already output my content here and I can output the full name here which simply
is my first name
and then a whitespace and then my last name, it's as easy as this,
we could also create a computed property named full name which kind of concatenates our string here, that
will be an alternative,
nice little challenge you could do if you want to.
Then down there, I of course want to output the email and then here, the password of course
and finally here, I want to output the choice regarding the data storage.
Now if I save this and we enter something here like Max Schwarzmuller, that's my name, choose your name here
of course, any email address of your choice
and finally a password, well that looks good to me,
I think we got a nice working simple form here.
Now the next step is that we take this form and enhance it by adding a submit button and only show the
form as long as we haven't submitted it but once we submit it, show that data sheet here at the bottom,
so let's work on this next. To add a submit button to this, I
well surprisingly first add the button here,
submit the form and I'll set this to type submit,
now I want to add a click listener of course and importantly, I add prevent here to prevent the default
which would be again to send this form to the server,
I don't want that to happen,
I don't want this form to reach the server,
I want to handle it with vuejs.
So here instead, I choose to do something upon a click and I could execute a method there
and typically you would probably do this to then use your data in this method
but here, all I need is really just a variable holding a true or false value which decides if I should
show the form or the data.
So here I will have my submitted property which is set to false initially and I will set this to true
here,
so submitted equals true now and this submitted property here decides whether I show this row here,
this form, so it's this form I want to show then,
so v-if equals submitted or I should say not submitted, so if it's not submitted then we show the form,
if it was submitted,
well in this case I want to show this and here I use submitted therefore.
Now let's see this in action,
looks good,
let's give the button some styling, that looks ugly.
So here it gets the button and button primary bootstrap classes here,
just going to restructure that so that everything is on one page here.
And now if I save this, looks much better, let me quickly fill out this form again so that we have some
nice, well used to play around with and set this to yes
again, submit the form and we see yes here
too. Now there was one thing I don't like, the yes field is no preselected here, I have to select one,
it's empty at the beginning,
so let's fix this too.
It is of course not preselected because I'm storing true or false here in my store data variable but of course
here, I have yes and no,
so that's a little mistake here,
we should of course change this to
yes
for example and now we see it's preselected and I still can submit it and now I
would see no here since I switched it just a second ago. So with that, we finished the second exercise, added
the button,
now let's turn to exercise three and maybe put the button here below exercise two so that we can clearly
see this
and now exercise three wants us to basically go up to the fields here, to the first and last name and put
that into a separate component which we then can use as a form control,
so let's do that now.
I first will create this component,
I will name it
fullname.vue here
and of course I will have a template in there and I will have a script tag, I won't use any special styling
here.
Now what I'll do is I will quickly copy the code from there, that will be my template here of course,
the two input fields, though I have to group them in a separate div because we may only have one top
level element if you remember that.
And then you hopefully also remember how we set up our own control,
we need to be able to get a value passed in,
so this value prop and then to return the input event or emit the input event.
Well therefore I set up props here and I expect to get a value and then I also need to have a method
somehow in my methods array where I can emit an input.
Well let's first work with this value here,
the interesting thing is that I have two different inputs here and I kind of need to split up a value
I get passed in into two fields and concatenate any input I have into a field I can output. To do that,
I'll first add a computed property, I'll name it first name,
this of course is a function as all computed properties are or a method
I should say
and the goal is to take the first word from my value.
Now that could be complicated,
if I have let's say a name which has three parts like a middle name in-between, that is something we would
have to handle differently,
I'll keep it simple and assume I only get two parts separated with a whitespace, so an empty space.
Then if this is the case, I can simply say the first name is the value and then I call the split function
and split on the whitespace,
now this is an array
and the first element is of course the first name.
Now I'm going to copy this to also get my last name here,
just need to copy that though and there, I want to get the second element in this array I split,
so that should be my last name then.
And with that, I can now go to my input here and pass the value to this
and the value here is of course my first name and the value on the second input is of course my last
name.
This is one thing,
now with that I'm not emitting my input event though
but let's already see if that works or if we can at least see that I pass my full name in there.
So if I go back to the app.vue file, I have to register my components, so I first have to import it
of course, so import full name from full
whoops from,
that is why I don't get support here, from fullname.vue and register it as a local component, components
shall
therefore have my app full name where I have the full name here.
I also replace first name and last name here and instead only have my full name and I will provide a default
value so that I can see if I correctly passed it down to my component,
so here I will populate this with my name.
So that's my app-full-name, I'll add it here,
app-full-name like this and I will use v-model to set up or to pass my full name there.
I also need to adjust it down there in the string interpolation,
I also want to put full name, this new property I just created,
let's have a look.
Already looks good,
we see it is correctly split up in the component we inserted,
that's great.
Now the missing piece is to also correctly submit it so that once I added it here, we see it updated
here which currently doesn't happen,
that of course doesn't happen because of a full name component,
I'm not emitting events upon changing it. So I need to have listeners on both inputs,
I'll listen to add input here and fire name changed
and the same is of course true for my last name here.
Now I need the name change the method here then and I do get the event passed in here.
Now the important thing is the name change event,
well what I have to do depends on which input emits this event because I know that the event target
will be this input element and this will hold a value which I now need to update in my name.
But to do this, I need to know if I need to append it to the first name or prepend it to the last name.
So in order to be able to know this, I will pass an argument here where I say first and here, I say last
and of course I also want to pass the default event which I get, passed by the dom kind of automatically
as here, I can now check is first and therefore let's even make this easier, let's say true or false.
So I check if it is the first thing which changed,
if it is the first thing, so if isFirst is true, then I want to emit and an event which is called emit
and some data.
Well I went to emit this is in all cases so let's put it outside of this and instead let's create a variable,
let name, it's empty at the beginning and here I will then say name equals and now it's the first name which
changed so I can say event target value because that will be the input of my first input element
here,
event target value,
so the first name changed and now I of course also want to concatenate a whitespace and then my last
name,
the computed property, last name here
otherwise
if it's not the first name, I want to do the same here but now of course the other way around.
So now, I do have my
first name which is constant and then I do add the changed value from the event which is now referring
to the last name input.
Now with name set here,
I now have to set value equal to name of course, to update my value property
otherwise my computed properties are not calculated correctly and then I should be able to output this
value here.
Let's see if this works as expected, if I reload this page and I change this to Maximillian,
submit the form,
well that looks good to me.
Now let's also see what happens if I remove the last name,
also looks great and if I change the last name and the first name, perfect. So the custom control seems
to work as it should
and I hope it became clear how to build that control.
It always comes down to being able to handle a prop named value and emit an event named input.
And with that, I'd say that were great steps in getting deeper into forms and really understanding them.